= Sluggable

== Description

This gem allows you to easily create slugs for your ActiveRecord models.

== Installation

    sudo gem install sluggable -s http://gemcutter.org

== Usage

In `config/environment.rb`, add the following:

    config.gem 'sluggable', :source => 'http://gemcutter.org'
    
Then, in your ActiveRecord model you just need to include the module
and provide the column to use when generating the slug.  For example, 
if we had a Post model with:

    class Blog < ActiveRecord::Base
      # Columns:
      #  name: string
      #  slug: string
  
      include Sluggable
      slug_from :name
  
      before_validation :generate_slug
  
    end

This sets it up so that the value of the `name` column is used as the
source when generating the slug.  The module also provides a private
method (`generate_slug`) to generate and store the slug for this record.  
It requires that the table have a column called `slug` and is typically
called in a lifecycle hook, though it can be called from anywhere you 
need it.

If you have a model that allows the same slug when scoped to another
associated model, you can provide a parameter as part of the `slug_from`
method:

    class Post < ActiveRecord::Base
      # Columns:
      #  blog_id: integer
      #  title:   string
      #  body:    text
      #  slug:    string

      belongs_to :blog
      
      include Sluggable
      slug_from :title, :scope => :blog_id
      
      before_validation :generate_slug
      
    end

This will allow the same slug to be generated for 2 posts each scoped to
a different blog.

== License

Copyright (c) 2009 Patrick Reagan (mailto:reaganpr@gmail.com)

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person
obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation
files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without
restriction, including without limitation the rights to use,
copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
